# Vault

Secure storage for private keys and sensitive data, designed to protect your
most critical assets in web3.0.

## Getting started

```bash
make vault/setup
```

## Running

```bash
make vault/start/dev
```

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
make vault/test

make vault/test/type
make vault/test/unit
make vault/test/integration
make vault/test/e2e
```

## Terminology

- **Mnemonic:** A `mnemonic` is a group of easy to remember words that can be
  used to deterministically generate `wallets`.
- **Seed:** Is a binary key obtained from a `mnemonic`. It is obtained by using
  PBKDF2 function on the `mnemonic`. You can generate different `rootKey` from
  the same seed.
- **Root Key:** A Root Key (or Master Key) is a cryptographic key calculated
  from a `seed`, using an EC `algorithm`. Most common `algorithm` is "Secp256k1"
  (used by Bitcoin and Ethereum chains). Solana uses "Ed25519". A Root Key should
  not be used for on chain operation. It serves its purpose as a parent for
  children `privateKey`.
- **Private Key:**: Is the private key material used to do on chain action,
  such as signing transactions. It is deterministically generated by deriving a
  `rootKey` on a `path`. Vault also offers the capability to import a
  `privateKey`, if it was previously encrypted using an `encryptionKey`
- **Encryption Key:** Is an RSA key used by the vault in import operations. Any
  private material imported to the Vault must be encrypted using the currently
  generated RSA Encryption Key public material. You can generate a new key by
  calling `POST /encryption-keys`. It will generate a new encryption key pair,
  and return the public key for user to encrypt with.
- **Account:** It is the abstraction around a `privateKey` used on chain. It is
  to be understood as defined in
  [bip32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki)
  specification. It can be the child of a `wallet` if it was generated in the
  vault using `POST /wallets/derive`, or it can be imported alone through `POST
/accounts/import`.
- **Wallet:** It is a structure that organizes a collection of accounts. It's
  the abstraction around a `rootKey`. The same relationship that applies to
  `rootKey` and `privateKeys` applies to `wallet` and `account`. A `wallet` is a
  parent for children `accounts`.

If you want a better understanding of the concepts above, you can read
[bip32](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki),
[bip39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki), and
[bip44](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0044.mediawiki).

## Formatting

```bash
make vault/format
make vault/lint

make vault/format/check
make vault/lint/check
```
